A **laser** is a device that emits light through a process of optical amplification based on the stimulated emission of electromagnetic radiation. The word *laser* is an anacronym that originated as an acronym for **light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation**.[1][2] The first laser was built in 1960 by Theodore Maiman at Hughes Research Laboratories, based on theoretical work by Charles H. Townes and Arthur Leonard Schawlow.[3]
 
**Download File >>> [https://kneedacexbrew.blogspot.com/?d=2A0PfK](https://kneedacexbrew.blogspot.com/?d=2A0PfK)**


 
A laser differs from other sources of light in that it emits light that is *coherent*. Spatial coherence allows a laser to be focused to a tight spot, enabling applications such as laser cutting and lithography. It also allows a laser beam to stay narrow over great distances (collimation), a feature used in applications such as laser pointers and lidar (light detection and ranging). Lasers can also have high temporal coherence, which permits them to emit light with a very narrow frequency spectrum. Alternatively, temporal coherence can be used to produce ultrashort pulses of light with a broad spectrum but durations as short as a femtosecond.
 
Lasers are used in optical disc drives, laser printers, barcode scanners, DNA sequencing instruments, fiber-optic, and free-space optical communication, semiconducting chip manufacturing (photolithography), laser surgery and skin treatments, cutting and welding materials, military and law enforcement devices for marking targets and measuring range and speed, and in laser lighting displays for entertainment. Semiconductor lasers in the blue to near-UV have also been used in place of light-emitting diodes (LEDs) to excite fluorescence as a white light source; this permits a much smaller emitting area due to the much greater radiance of a laser and avoids the droop suffered by LEDs; such devices are already used in some car headlamps.[4][5][6][7]
 
The first device using amplification by stimulated emission operated at microwave frequencies, and was called a *maser*, for "microwave amplification by stimulated emission of radiation".[8] When similar optical devices were developed they were first known as *optical masers*, until "microwave" was replaced by "light" in the acronym, to become *laser*.[9]
 
The back-formed verb "to lase" is frequently used in the field, meaning "to give off coherent light," especially about the gain medium of a laser;[12] when a laser is operating it is said to be "lasing".[13] The terms *laser* and *maser* are also used for naturally occurring coherent emissions, as in *astrophysical maser* and *atom laser*.[14][15]

A laser that produces light by itself is technically an optical oscillator rather than an optical amplifier as suggested by the acronym.[16] It has been humorously noted that the acronym LOSER, for "light oscillation by stimulated emission of radiation", would have been more correct.[15] With the widespread use of the original acronym as a common noun, optical amplifiers have come to be referred to as *laser amplifiers*.[17]
 
Modern physics describes light and other forms of electromagnetic radiation as the group behavior of fundamental particles known as *photons*. Photons are released and absorbed through electromagnetic interactions with other fundamental particles that carry electric charge. A common way to release photons is to heat an object; some of the thermal energy being applied to the object will cause the molecules and electrons within the object to gain energy, which is then lost through thermal radiation, that we see as light. This is the process that causes a candle flame to give off light.
 
Thermal radiation is a random process, and thus the photons emitted have a range of different wavelengths, travel in different directions, and are released at different times. The energy within the object is not random, however: it is stored by atoms and molecules in "excited states", which release photons with distinct wavelengths. This gives rise to the science of spectroscopy, which allows materials to be determined through the specific wavelengths that they emit.
 
The underlying physical process creating photons in a laser is the same as in thermal radiation, but the actual emission is not the result of random thermal processes. Instead, the release of a photon is triggered by the nearby passage of another photon. This is called stimulated emission. For this process to work, the passing photon must be similar in energy, and thus wavelength, to the one that could be released by the atom or molecule, and the atom or molecule must be in the suitable excited state.
 
The photon that is emitted by stimulated emission is identical to the photon that triggered its emission, and both photons can go on to trigger stimulated emission in other atoms, creating the possibility of a chain reaction. For this to happen, many of the atoms or molecules must be in the proper excited state so that the photons can trigger them. In most materials, atoms or molecules drop out of excited states fairly rapidly, making it difficult or impossible to produce a chain reaction. The materials chosen for lasers are the ones that have metastable states, which stay excited for a relatively long time. In laser physics, such a material is called an active laser medium. Combined with an energy source that continues to "pump" energy into the material, this makes it possible to have enough atoms or molecules in an excited state for a chain reaction to develop.
 
Lasers are distinguished from other light sources by their coherence. Spatial (or transverse) coherence is typically expressed through the output being a narrow beam, which is diffraction-limited. Laser beams can be focused to very tiny spots, achieving a very high irradiance, or they can have a very low divergence to concentrate their power at a great distance. Temporal (or longitudinal) coherence implies a polarized wave at a single frequency, whose phase is correlated over a relatively great distance (the coherence length) along the beam.[18][*page needed*] A beam produced by a thermal or other incoherent light source has an instantaneous amplitude and phase that vary randomly with respect to time and position, thus having a short coherence length.
 
Lasers are characterized according to their wavelength in a vacuum. Most "single wavelength" lasers produce radiation in several *modes* with slightly different wavelengths. Although temporal coherence implies some degree of monochromaticity, some lasers emit a broad spectrum of light or emit different wavelengths of light simultaneously. Certain lasers are not single spatial mode and have light beams that diverge more than is required by the diffraction limit. All such devices are classified as "lasers" based on the method of producing light by stimulated emission. Lasers are employed where light of the required spatial or temporal coherence can not be produced using simpler technologies.
 
A laser consists of a gain medium, a mechanism to energize it, and something to provide optical feedback.[19] The gain medium is a material with properties that allow it to amplify light by way of stimulated emission. Light of a specific wavelength that passes through the gain medium is amplified (power increases). Feedback enables stimulated emission to amplify predominantly the optical frequency at the peak of the gain-frequency curve. As stimulated emission grows, eventually one frequency dominates over all others, meaning that a coherent beam has been formed.[20]
 
The process of stimulated emission is analogous to that of an audio oscillator with positive feedback which can occur, for example, when the speaker in a public-address system is placed in proximity to the microphone. The screech one hears is audio oscillation at the peak of the gain-frequency curve for the amplifier.[21][*page needed*]
 
For the gain medium to amplify light, it needs to be supplied with energy in a process called pumping. The energy is typically supplied as an electric current or as light at a different wavelength. Pump light may be provided by a flash lamp or by another laser.
 
In the classical view, the energy of an electron orbiting an atomic nucleus is larger for orbits further from the nucleus of an atom. However, quantum mechanical effects force electrons to take on discrete positions in orbitals. Thus, electrons are found in specific energy levels of an atom, two of which are shown below:
 
An electron in an atom can absorb energy from light (photons) or heat (phonons) only if there is a transition between energy levels that match the energy carried by the photon or phonon. For light, this means that any given transition will only absorb one particular wavelength of light. Photons with the correct wavelength can cause an electron to jump from the lower to the higher energy level. The photon is consumed in this process.
 
When an electron is excited from one state to that at a higher energy level with energy difference ΔE, it will not stay that way forever. Eventually, a photon will be spontaneously created from the vacuum having energy ΔE. Conserving energy, the electron transitions to a lower energy level that is not occupied, with transitions to different levels having different time constants. This process is called spontaneous emission. Spontaneous emission is a quantum-mechanical effect and a direct physical manifestation of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. The emitted photon has a random direction, but its wavelength matches the absorption wavelength of the transition. This is the mechanism of fluorescence and thermal emission.
 
A photon with the correct wavelength to be absorbed by a transition can also cause an electron to drop from the higher to the lower level, emitting a new photon. The emitted photon exactly matches the original photon in wavelength, phase, and 